# Getting Started

This library provides a set of components and composables that you can use and extend in your own projects. All components are built with [Vue 3](https://v3.vuejs.org/) and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). Some of them are also using [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org/) features.


## Installation

::alert{type="success"}
  Library is now available on npm. Be aware that it is still in development.
::

First, you need Vue 3 project. It is very recommended to use Tailwind CSS with your project. Some components are using Tailwind CSS classes. Also using TypeScript is necessary.

::alert{type="warning"}
  Be aware that CLI is still in development. You should probably change some paths in files after adding components.
::

```bash
vue create my-project
```

### Init project


For the first step, library has to be initialized in your project. You can do it with npx:

```bash
npx rosalana-dev@latest init
```
Packages are made for Vite or Nuxt.js projects. CLI will automatically detect your project type and recommend the best option for you.

```bash
? Where di you want to place components?
? Where do you want to place composables?
? Where do you want to place types?
```

### Install

After initialization, CLI will create a `rosalana.config.json` file in your project root. Do not remove it, it is necessary for the library to work properly. Then you need to install the library. It will create the necessary directories and files in your project.

```bash
npx rosalana-dev@latest install
```

### Add components

Now you can add components to your project.

```bash
npx rosalana-dev@latest add <component>
```

::alert{type="success"}
  Now you can use components in your project.
::
