# ActivityTracker

Activity tracker brings a simple way to track user activity on your website. It can be used to track user page views. It is a simple and lightweight option to determine user favorites sites and pages.

## Installation
To use the `ActivityTracker` component in your project, you can install it via npm.

```bash
npx rosalana-dev@latest add ActivityTracker
```

## Usage
Using the `ActivityTracker` is very simple. Follow the steps below to start tracking user page visits. The `ActivityTracker` uses the `vue-router` to track the user's page visits. 

### Tracking
 In your route middleware or file that is responsible for managing route changes in `vue-router`, you can configure and initialize the `ActivityTracker` as follows.

```ts
const { config, track } = useActivity();
```
First you have a option to configure how the `ActivityTracker` will behave.
You can set the following options:

```ts
// Set the maximum number of activities to store if you don't want to limit the number of activities simply don't set this option
config.max = 10; 
// Set routes that will be ignored by the `ActivityTracker`
config.exclude = ['/login', '/register'];
// You can also change the key that will be used to store the activities in the storage
config.storage = {
    key: 'my-activity-key' // default is 'activity'
    storage: localStorage // default is localStorage
}
```
When you have configured the `ActivityTracker` you can start tracking the user activities by calling the `track` function.

```ts
track(curentRoute: RouteLocationNormalizedGeneric);
```

### Getting Activities
To get the activities that have been tracked you can call the `activities` function.

The `activities` function provides a simple query system to filter the activities as you need. It can merge activities in groups and also determine the page type such as `index`, `show`, `create` or `edit`.

```ts
const { activities } = useActivity();
```
Function `activities` is like for creating scope for filtering activities. By the parameter, you can filter activities by the `path` or by `group@type` string. Group is like a category for the activities and it is computed from the path. Type is the type of the page as mentioned above.

```ts
// You can scope all
const scopeAll = activities();
// You can scope by path
const scopeByPath = activities('/some-path');
// You can scope by group
const scopeByGroup = activities('some-group');
// You can scope by type (only index pages)
const scopeByType = activities('@index');
// or you can combine them
const scopeByGroupAndType = activities('some-group@index');
```
::alert{type="success"}
With the `group@type` syntax you can be very specific about what you want to filter.
::

When you have scoped the activities you can work with them as so. Every function chained after will affect only the scoped activities.

```ts
// Get full computed object
const full = myScope.get(limit?: number);
// Get only the ids parameters of the activities
const ids = myScope.ids(limit?: number);
// Remove all activities from the scope
myScope.remove();
```

### API
Objects returned by the `get()` function has the following properties:

- `count`: The number of visits.
- `lastVisited`: The last visited page.
- `meta`: The meta information about the page (name, params, query).
- `path`: The path of the page.
- `score`: The score of the activity. It is computed based on the last visited and the count of visits.

You dont have to determine which activity is the most relevant. The `ActivityTracker` has a simple algorithm that will determine the most relevant activity based on the last visited and the count of visits. This is the `score` property. When you call the `get()` function the activities will be sorted by the `score` automatically.

::alert{type="warning"}
Use the `score` property to sort the activities by relevance. The higher the score the more relevant the activity is.
::

::alert{type="info"}
The `ActivityTracker` is a simple and lightweight solution to track user activities. It is not a full-featured analytics tool. If you need more advanced analytics, you should consider using a dedicated analytics tool.
::

